


1. Does the revenue function also incorporate LMPs? Sometimes LMPs could be misleading, especially if the problem is both a dispatch and expansion problem.

Yes, the function incorporates LMPs. While it might be confusing that you get revenue peaks at certain times due to capacity expansion, from a cost equilibrium perspective this makes sense and removing those would lead to imbalances where opex + capex per asset are not matching the revenue. Note: this balance breaks down when additional capacity constraints are present, but that's a separate topic.


2. Do we have special plotting functions in PyPSA that are already incorporated in the tool?
Yes, all statistics functions have a `.plot` (matplotlib/seaborn) and `.iplot` (plotly) accessor.


3. In case of RE → Hydrogen → NH₃ → Gas turbine → Electricity (long-duration storage), how can we find stage-wise product cost?
By having a look at the `marginal_prices` at the respective buses or with statistics using the `prices` function with a `bus_carrier` argument.


4. Can we extract marginal costs?

Yes, but that is in the basic PyPSA data model, e.g. `n.generators.marginal_cost` or `n.links.marginal_cost` for multi-carrier links.


5. What future developments are planned for the stats module? Will the focus be on plotting or more analysis/parameters?
both :) potential short term plans are: better integration with network collections; plotting maps; interactive dashboard provided by pypsa using the statistics module; expanding the set of market indicator functions


6. Why are loads not considered in “withdrawal”? Aren’t they also withdrawing energy?
Indeed they should be. I was also puzzled by this. I have to look at what was going on there. 

7. Would the statistics module function efficiently on networks generated with older versions of PyPSA (before the statistics module or early stages of it)?
they should be working likewise, however, no guarantee


8. What is the best way to add costs (capital, fixed, operational) for technologies like nuclear, including decommissioning cost beyond the generator lifetime?
Oh that is a whole question not related to statistics. It really depends on the kind of model you are running. In a overnight optimization, I would incorporate these into the `capital_cost`. In a pathway optimization, you have to find different strategies (sorry, too long to explain for now). 


9. When by-product cost is required in multi-carrier systems (e.g., RE → Hydrogen → Ammonia → Gas turbine), how can we determine product cost at each stage?
See question 3.
